# Project Proposals
###### Author: Michael Eller
###### Date: 12 August 2018

Project ideas for software programs are endless in our computerized
society. We are information hungry, video game playing, social media
consumed people. I have always been interested in software and it's
capabilities but lately, with the addition of over-scaled and over
developed apps, I have been more interested in developing apps that
provide the function they were supposed to. Keeping it simple and to
the point providing the owner an intuitive user experience that they
expect is my goal. I have picked three projects that, I feel, would
definitely have a relevance today and in the future. In the following
paragraphs I will explain my ideas on a classifieds app, bulletin board
app, and a food journal.

To start with, classified apps have been the key to unload unwanted
items in today's digital age. The days of searching the morning paper
or even different websites or social media platforms for items to buy,
second-hand, are going by the wayside. Although, Facebook has done a
good job of incorporating a marketplace within there social media
platform, I feel a dedicated app would best provide a means to buy and
sell. Craigslist is a good example of a website that provides this
service. I would like to expand on this idea with an app that delivers
on the same premise but does so securely and safely. To do this user
details would remain anonymous, messaging would be accomplished through
the app, and payment would also be handled through the app or by third-
party payment services that provide secure transactions. Items would be
posted by the seller for a fee. This would cover costs related to
providing the service. Buyers would search by categories within a
specific radius of a corresponding range. Items will remain available
and searchable until someone decides that's what they are looking for
and they place a deposit through the app. After the deposit is placed
the item will be held in the background and no longer be searchable/
displayed. Secure messaging through the app will be utilized to discuss
delivery, inspection, and other details related to purchase. This will
give both purchaser and buyer piece of mind knowing that both parties
have a vested interest in the transaction.

Secondly, we all remember bulletin boards in school with announcements,
class schedules, holiday displays, and sign-up sheets. Now lets imagine this
in digital form. What would it look like? What could you use it for? How
would you deploy such a thing? Well the idea is it could look like anything,
meaning it would be customizable for its particular use. It's implementation
opportunities are almost endless and could be deployed by phone app and
computer. Take a neighborhood for example. I live in a wonderful neighborhood
that likes to stay social with each other. My neighborhood has an HOA as well.
Currently we keep in touch through three different methods: a HOA Facebook
group for owners, non-member HOA Facebook group for owners and renters, and
by an HOA website. Now imagine a large bulletin board at the entrance that
the HOA president can announce board meetings, post the by-laws so all
(renters/owners) can see them, residents can post lost animals and things for
sale, etc. That would be an eyesore and anyone can post solicitations on the
board as they drive by but with just an app we can solve most, if not all,
issues that come with communication within the neighborhood. The app would
have a customizable display, customized by the administrator/owner. The
administrator approves or denies membership, keeping neighborhood integrity
current. Each area of the bulletin board would have permissions assigned so
residents could post freely in one area but not in all. These would be
reserved for board members to communicate neighborhood specific items. The
admin/owner would have the ability to remove items as they see fit as well.
This would be a multi-use application. It will be able to be implemented by
any group that requires such a service to provide pertinent and relevant
information in a manner, that reaches all at the same time in a user friendly
environment.

Finally,  the dietary family of programs/ apps have been an area where shotty
design and over development runs rampant. I believe this to be true because
of a need to make money off of the current society's shift toward healthy
eating and weight loss. My idea for a food journal would help those, like me,
who don't have a degree in some sort of physical science and just want to
track their macros and water intake. My idea for a food journal app would be
simplistic in design and user friendly. It would allow you to enter your
macro nutrient values (calories, carbohydrates or net carbohydrates, protein,
and fat grams) and provide an output displaying your progress, throughout
the day, according to your pre-defined parameters. This will let you know if
you are over or under your goal. This app would be useful for all diets
calling for different macro ratios. Since you set the parameters your self
you can switch between keto and paleo diets without having to use a different
app. Water intake would also be measured in the same manner but can be set up
with notifications that sends a text to your phone, smart-watch, fit-bit,
etc. reminding you to drink water. A scan feature would be able to be
incorporated in order to scan food barcodes. This would allow you to simply
scan and add as you keep track. The program would also have a print and save
function. These function would help those who want to archive their meals or
print there meals for a set period. Printing would be extremely useful for
those who are seeing a nutritionist. They would be able to bring there food
journal to them without having to remember, type, or handwrite this
information. I see this program/app being used by professionals and by
enthusiasts. At a later time I see a professional version of this app coming
to fruition which allows a professional to tailor the end user's goals while
the program/app sends information back to the professional on their progress.
The professional can send back words of encouragement, admiration, or updates
through notifications. All in all I see this project as an opportunity and a
necessity.

In conclusion, we love automation, information, and social media seems to run 
our lives. In the preceding paragraphs I have expanded on three different
project ideas, a classifieds app, a bulletin board app, and a food journal
app, that would greatly enhance some form of someone's day to day life.
Bottom line is software capabilities, today, are amazing but keeping it
simple and providing the owner an intuitive experience is my goal.
